Methods discriminator model (#10)
greenelab/text_mined_hetnet_manuscript: content/03.methods.md

Lastly, we added a dropout layer (p=0.25) between the fully connected layer and the softmax layer.

![
The architecture of the discriminative model is a convolutional neural network.
We perform a convolution step using multiple filters. 
These filters generate a feature map that is sent into a maximum pooling layer. 
This layer extracts the largest feature in each of these maps.
The extracted features are concatenated into a singular vector that is passed into a fully connected network. 
The fully connected network has 300 neurons for the first layer, 100 neurons for the second layer and 50 neurons for the last layer. 
From the fully connected network the last step is to generate predictions using the softmax layer.
](images/figures/convolutional_neural_network/convolutional_neural_nework.png){#fig:convolutional_network}

#### Calibration of the Discriminative Model

Often many tasks require a machine learning model to output reliable probability predictions. 
A model is well calibrated if the probabilities emitted from the model match the observed probabilities: a well-calibrated model that assigns a class label with 80% probability should have that class appear 80% of the time.

> Typically, deep learning models tend to be poorly calibrated [@arxiv:1706.04599; @arxiv:1807.00263].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Deep neural network models can often be poorly calibrated [@arxiv:1706.04599; @arxiv:1807.00263].
```

talk about generative model and how it works
### Word Embeddings
mention facebooks fasttext model and how we used it to train word vectors
### Discriminative Model
The discriminative model is a neural network, which we train to predict labels from the generative model.
The expectation is that the discriminative model can learn more complete features of the text than the label functions that are used in the generative model.
We used a convolutional neural network with multiple filters as our discriminative model.
This network uses multiple filters with fixed widths of 300 dimensions and can have varying heights (Figure {@fig:convolutional_network}).
For our model we each filter at a fixed height of 7, because this provided the best performance in terms of relationship classification [@arxiv:1510.03820].
We trained this model for 20 epochs using the adam optimizer [@arxiv:1412.6980] with a learning rate of 0.001.
This optimizer used pytorch's default parameter settings.
We added a L2 penalty on the network weights to prevent overfitting.
Lastly, we added a dropout layer (p=0.25) between the fully connected layer and the softmax layer.

![

> The architecture of the discriminative model is a convolutional neural network. We perform a convolution step using multiple filters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The architecture of the discriminative model is a convolutional neural network.
We perform a convolution step using multiple filters. 
```

These filters generate a feature map that is sent into a maximum pooling layer. 

> This layer extracts the largest feature in each of these maps. The extract features are concatenated into a singular vector that will be passed into a fully connected network. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This layer extracts the largest feature in each of these maps.
The extracted features are concatenated into a singular vector that is passed into a fully connected network. 
```

The fully connected network has 300 neurons for the first layer, 100 neurons for the second layer and 50 neurons for the last layer. 
From the fully connected network the last step is to generate predictions using the softmax layer.

> ](images/figures/convolutional_neural_network/convolutional_neural_nework.png){#fig:convolutional_network}

Reviewer: This figure needs some improvement. It looks like there are some parts that are close-to-but-not-quite aligned. They should either be aligned, or they should be clearly and intentionally unaligned. There's also very different font sizes, styles, and maybe even widths.

### Word Embeddings
mention facebooks fasttext model and how we used it to train word vectors
### Discriminator Model

> The discriminator model is designed to improve off of the predctions from the generative model.

Reviewer 2: "predctions" misspelling. Is it confusing to call the generative output "predictions"? Should we reserve the word predictions for the discriminator output? Let's try to find a consistent terminology for the output value from the generative model.

Reviewer: How about "generated labels"?

We used a convolutional neural network with multiple filters as our discriminator model.
This network uses multiple filters with fixed widths of 300 dimensions and can have varying heights (Figure 1).
For our model we each filter at a fixed height of 7, because this provided the best performance in terms of relationship classification [@arxiv:1510.03820].
We trained this model for 20 epochs using the adam optimizer [@arxiv:1412.6980] with a learning rate of 0.001.
This optimizer had beta values of 0.9 and 0.99 respectively.
We added a L2 penalty on the network weights to prevent overfitting.
Lastly, we added a dropout layer (p=0.25) between the fully connected layer and the softmax layer.

> ![convolutional neural network here](images/figures/convolutional_neural_network/convolutional_neural_nework.png)

Reviewer 2: Figure caption syntax

### Word Embeddings
mention facebooks fasttext model and how we used it to train word vectors

> ### Discriminator Model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Discriminative Model
```
Making the construction between generative/discriminative parallel

> The discriminator model is designed to improve off of the generated labels from the generative model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The discriminative model is a neural network, which we train to predict labels from the generative model.
The expectation is that the discriminative model can learn more complete features of the text than the label functions that are used in the generative model.
```

> We used a convolutional neural network with multiple filters as our discriminator model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We used a convolutional neural network with multiple filters as our discriminative model.
```

> This network uses multiple filters with fixed widths of 300 dimensions and can have varying heights (Figure {@fig:convolutional_network}).

Reviewer: I don't quite understand this sentence. Is it about CNNs in general, or your specific one?

Author: This line is about my specific model.

Reviewer: Here it says the heights can vary, but below it says 7. Should it just say a height of 7 `because this provided...`?

Author: Yeah I think saying height of 7 is appropriate here. Will change.

> For our model we each filter at a fixed height of 7, because this provided the best performance in terms of relationship classification [@arxiv:1510.03820].

Reviewer: Is this based on the reference from the arxiv paper?

Author: Yeah this was based off of the arxiv paper. They did bench marking experiments using the same model I'm using for this project.

We trained this model for 20 epochs using the adam optimizer [@arxiv:1412.6980] with a learning rate of 0.001.

> This optimizer had beta values of 0.9 and 0.99 respectively.

Reviewer: Why respectively? I might have missed that there are two things there.

Author: The adam optimizer takes two values for beta. According to the [pytorch documentation](https://pytorch.org/docs/stable/optim.html#torch.optim.Adam):
> **beta** (Tuple[float, float], optional) - coefficients used for computing running averages of gradient and its square

Turns out the values I'm using are the default, so I can change this to say default settings if too confusing.

Reviewer: Yes - I think that would be helpful

We added a L2 penalty on the network weights to prevent overfitting.
Lastly, we added a dropout layer (p=0.25) between the fully connected layer and the softmax layer.

![

> This is the architecture of our convolutional neural network. We treat the sentence matrix like an image and perform a convolution step using multiple filters. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The architecture of the discriminative model is a convolutional neural network. We perform a convolution step using multiple filters. 
```

These filters generate a feature map that is sent into a maximum pooling layer. 
This layer extracts the largest feature in each of these maps. The extract features are concatenated into a singular vector that will be passed into a fully connected network. 
The fully connected network has 300 neurons for the first layer, 100 neurons for the second layer and 50 neurons for the last layer. 
From the fully connected network the last step is to generate predictions using the softmax layer.
](images/figures/convolutional_neural_network/convolutional_neural_nework.png){#fig:convolutional_network}

> ### Discriminator Model Calibration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Calibration of the Discriminative Model
```

Often many tasks require a machine learning model to output reliable probability predictions. 

> This means if a model were to assign a class label with 80% probability, that class should appear 80% of the time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A model is well calibrated if the probabilities emitted from the model match the observed probabilities: a well-calibrated model that assigns a class label with 80% probability should have that class appear 80% of the time.
```
